*Authors: Sebastian*

2 thousand years ago, the Goblins and Orcs began to band under the authority of
Yule, a great and mighty Orc, who conquered the Goblins and lead his people to
grow and become more powerful. Their war started in the East of Xern, with Yule
slowly taking in more and more Goblins and Orcs into his army. 

Years past and Yule had grown old. In his quest for power and unity, he failed
to provide an heir, and his people began to worry about what was going to happen
next. 

At his funeral, Yule's retainer, a young Goblin named Mitt, ready his master's
last will. In it, it read that Yule had declared Mitt to be his heir, much to
the surprise of his Orc comrades. Mitt began to solidify his rule as king and
began a power switch, instating many Goblins and replacing Orcs in power.
Eventually Mitt began to grow in his power and took many wives to secure his
lineage. 

As the conquest began, Mitt would slowly take in the Ogres into his forces. He
made many trade agreemenets with them and solidified a true partnership with
them, with many Ogres even gaining office higher than any Orc. 

When Mitt's son, Re'Mit took power, he expanded farther than no other, his
military genius expanding thousands of miles of Xern under his rule. He took the
Gnomes and the Halflings and put them under his rule, but ultimately had to
leave the Harpies in the north alone, due to their mountainous geography making
it impossible to take power from them. 

The south soon solidified under Re'Mit's grandson, with the Goblin empire
becoming the largest empire Xern had even seen. And for a thousand years, the
Goblin Empire stood without equal, taking 3/4ths of Xern under its rule. 

Eventually, Mitt's bloodline ended and the Goblin empire started holding office
for a council to rule the empire, instead of one man. However, these plans
    became difficult. Rebellion in the north from the Human/Centuaur Alliance
    had cut deep into the Goblin empire's treasury and many feared a 100% Goblin
    ruled Xern would never come. 

Of course, that's not to say only Goblins ruled Xern at this time. The genius
Hepen, a Halfling who's cleverness was surpassed by only his lively spirit,
stood strong among the court, and began to try and use these trying times to
push his influence. He made a doctrine for the empire to start placing stricter
regulation on their slavery system. His reasoning was that so many slavers were
abusing their slaves with no just cause, and that the Orc slaves in particularly
were becoming less respected than the cattle they butcher. 

Many Goblin's refused to listen, but this led to some reforms, which irritated
many Goblins.  Work of Hepen's deeds made many lower Halfling and Gnome
officials begin to think that they could strive for higher office, maybe even
reach the high councel like Hepen himself. 

Many Goblin lords and Slavers hated this and began trying to ruin Hepen's
position. But this only strengthened Hepen's other campaigns towards reforming
the government against Corruption within, and with every loss in the north, many
politicians began to keep out Hepen's councel for help. 

Hepen released a full manefesto, detailing 65 new rules to be made absolute in
the Goblin empire. 32 of them seems to specifically target slave owners and put
sever limitations on how a slave was to be treated by his master. 

This outraged Goblin Slavers and this eventually led to a huge faction to grow
and rise up in response to Hepen. They released their own Manefesto demanding
that Hepen be branded a traitor and hung and that his manefest be destroyed.
Hepen voluntarily let himself be hanged, he being well over the senior age for
Halflings by now, but his supporters refused to abandon his manefest, resulting
in strong rioting on both sides. 

Eventually, those who hated Hepen's Manefest refused to accept this new
direction in the empire and declared their annexation from the Goblin Empire,
becoming the True Goblin Empire of the South, while those who remained in the
north eventually fell to the Human Centaur Alliance. 

The Southern Empire fought hard to keep itself against the Alliance, even
banding together all of the empire's spell casters and transmuting a giant
mountain range to rise up, splitting Xern in half and then collapsing in on
itself to create an enormous canyon, dividing the land completely. 

Sadly for them however, this remained the last combined effort of the empire.
After this happened, the Ogres became worried about the Goblin Empire's
influence on Xern and it's land. The Ogres became strong friends with the Dryads
of the Forest of Madness and left the empire, unable to be followed into the
dense forests of the land. 

The Gnomes and Halflings eventually left as well. The Halflings continued to
face resentment from the Goblins after Hepen's interference in Goblin law, and
the Gnomes could easily see the power crumbling and they left. the Gnomes worked
to try and reconnect Xern's two halves, but have so far been unable to do more
than construct bridges across the mighty chasm. 

The Empire has since been long gone in modern days. The Orcs were the only race
to never leave the Goblin Empire, only because the subjugation was so intense on
them that most Orcs barely gained any free will. Nowadays the Goblin empire has
fractured so deeply that there doesn't look to ever be a return from such a
masterful empire. 
